This text describes contribution procedures for adding scripts to
systemtap.examples directory.  Please read before submitting SystemTap
examples.  Discussions take place on the
<systemtap@sources.redhat.com> mailing list.

- general

  The script should do something that normal users of SystemTap might
  like to do, such as show which processes have system calls that time
  out or show which memory accesses cause page faults.  Scripts that
  check that some aspect of SystemTap operates correctly, but would
  never be used by a regular user should go in one of the other
  testsuite directories.

- copyright

  You must designate the appropriate copyright holder for your
  contribution.  The copyright holder is assumed to agree with the
  general licensing terms (GPLv2+).
  
- coding style

  Abide by the general formatting of the code for SystemTap.  The
  code base generally follows the GNU standards in usermode code and
  the Linux kernel standards in runtime code.

  - Try to keep the lines shorter than 80 characters long.
  - Make use of SystemTap functions to factor out common idioms in code.
  - Use tapset probe points rather than raw function names.
  - No probes by file and line number are allowed in examples.
  - Avoid using guru mode (-g) in the examples.
  - Minimize use of globals variables:
 	All associative arrays must be global in SystemTap.
	Variables used only for the duration of a probe should be local.
  - Make the file executable and use the following line at the
    beginning of the script to select the proper interpreter:

    #! /usr/bin/env stap

- Describe the example

  Each example script has a description in a .meta file that provide
  an easy-to-parse format that describes various aspect of the example
  script. The .meta file has the same base name as the example script.
  The .meta file is parsed to generate a web page listing all the
  available examples; the webpage is available at:
  http://sourceware.org/systemtap/examples/.  The .meta file also
  describes how to run the compiled example script for testing. This
  ensures that the example is frequently run to verified it works on a
  wide range fo platforms.

  The meta file contains the following elements. Each element (key and
  value) are on one line. If a key can have a list of values, the list
  elements are separated by spaces.

  title: Descriptive title for the script (required)
  name: the file name for the script, e.g. iotime.stp (required)
  version: versioning if any fixes and developed can be identified (required)
  author: name of author(s), "anonymous" if unknown (required)
  exclusivearch: Stated if the script can only run on some arches
	       this concept borrowed from rpm, matches types for rpm:
	       x86 i386 x86_64 ppc ppc64, s390 (optional)
  requires: Some scripts may require software to be available. In some cases
	    may need version numbering, e.g. kernel >= 2.6
    	    Can have multiple "requires:" tags. (optional)
  keywords: List of likely words to categorize the script (required)
	    keywords are separated by spaces.
            #FIXME have list of keyword
  subsystem: List what part of the kernel the instrumentation probes (required)
	     audit cpu blockio file filesystem locking memory numa network
	     process scheduler or user-space (probes are in the user-space)
  application: when user-space probing becomes available (optional)
               a script might probe a particular application
	       this tag indicates the applicaton
  status: describes the state of development for the script (required)
	  proposed    	just an idea
	  experimental	an implemented idea, but use at own risk
	  alpha		   
	  beta
	  production	should be safe to use
  exit: how long do the script run? (required)
        fixed	    	exits in a fixed amount of time
        user-controlled	      exits with "cntrl-c"
        event-ended	      	    exits with some arbitrary event
  output: what kind of output does the script generate? (required)
	  trace histogram graph sorted batch timed
  scope: How much of the processes on the machine does the script watch?
         system-wide or pid
  arg_[0-9]+: Describe what the arguments into the script are. (optional)
  description: A text description what the script does. (required)
  test_check: How to check that the example compiles.
	      (e.g. stap -p4 iotime.stp)
  test_installcheck: How to check that the example runs.
		     (e.g. stap iotime.stp -c "sleep 1")


- Review, revision, and submission of the example script

  When you have a SystemTap script that should be included as an
  example, submit it to the SystemTap mailing list,
  systemtap@sources.redhat.com for review. Even if the script is not
  ready for submission as an example, feel free to ask questions or
  discuss the work-in-progress script with other people working with
  SystemTap.

